libent is a cross-platform wrapper around `getentropy(2)`. It exports
one symbol, `ent_getentropy`. If getentropy is available, then it's just
a shim around that. Otherwise, it uses `getrandom(2)` (available since
kernel 3.17) on Linux, or `/dev/urandom` on other \*nix.

### Building

It uses meson. `meson ./build && ninja -C build` should do the trick.

The main intended way to use this library is to depend on it from
another meson project, i.e., to pull `libent_dep` out from this library
as a [subproject](https://mesonbuild.com/Subprojects.html). It's also
possible to install it as a regular library if you want to for some
reason â€” just run meson with `-Dent_install=true` and add on a `sudo
ninja -C build install`.

If you want to release a binary distribution of your program, you may
want to build with `-Dent_compat=true`. This tells libent not to try to
use getentropy, which might result in a program that can run against
an older libc version on some platforms. (`ent_compat` does nothing on
OpenBSD; we claim that 5.6 is old enough for anyone's purposes who wants
to use this library.)

### Why?

`getentropy` is the wave of the future. It's the correct API for
generating small amounts of entropy to create cryptographic keys or seed
PRNGs. It's good and reasonable and true, it's on Linux, \*BSD, and OS
X, and it only took us fifty years of UNIX to get here.

Sadly, it only just arrived, so nobody has it yet. It didn't land in
Linux until glibc 2.25, which seems to only have made it into Debian 10.

Once `getentropy` is everywhere you care about, you can just do a
s/ent\_//g on all the call sites and discard this shim.

This project began because [Urbit](https://github.com/urbit/urbit)'s
entropy-generation function was bothering me. Then it got out of hand.

### References

* [OpenBSD getentropy](https://man.openbsd.org/cgi-bin/man.cgi/OpenBSD-current/man2/getentropy.2)
* [djb on entropy gathering](https://blog.cr.yp.to/20140205-entropy.html)
